labs/lab02.adoc, before:

include::header.adoc[]

:title: C no evil
:Author Initials: ASN
:Date:    2020-08-15
:Revision: 0.1
:ASST: Lab01

= {title}

**Lab exercises: Due January 29th by midnight**

The goals for this assignment are:

* Working with stdout and stderr
* Working with environment variables 
* Working with C strings

To get started, do a `git pull` from within your `warmup-[username]` repository.

:sectnums:

= Stack diagram I

Consider the following program. 

[source]
----
int main() {
  const char* str = "unicorn";

  const char* m = NULL;
  for (const char* p = str; *p != '\0'; p++) {
    if (*p == 'c') m = p;
  }
  // Draw the stack here
  printf("%s\n", m);
  return 0;
}
----

Fill in a table that shows how the values of `*p` and `*m` change each iteration of the loop.

[cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| Loop Iteration | *p | *m 
| 1 | u | NA (NULL) 
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |
|===

Draw the state of the stack (e.g. a stack diagram) after the loop completes. You do not need to 
show all intermediate steps.

= Stack diagram II

Draw the stack for the following program. Be careful: `strtok` modifies the 
variable `line` by replacing the delimiters with the null character \0. 

[source]
----
int main() {
  char line[1024]; // max of 1023 characters can be read from the line
  strcpy(line, "ls -l -a");

  int n = 0;
  char* list[128]; // max of 128 words can be put in the list
  char* token = strtok(line, delims);
  while (token)
  {
      list[n++] = token;
      token = strtok(NULL, delims);
  }
  list[n] = NULL;
  // Draw the stack here
  return 0;
}
----

= stdout, stderr

Write a program, `outerr.c`, that outputs the even integers between 0 and 10 to standard out 
and the odd integers between 1 and 10 to standard error.

[source, subs="quotes"]
----
$ **./outerr**
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
$ **./outerr > even.txt 2> odd.txt**
$ **cat even.txt**
0
2
4
6
8
$ **cat odd.txt**
1
3
5
7
9
----


= Environment

Write a program, `myenv.c`, that loops through the process's environment variables and 
prints the value for PATH. Use the code below, based on pointer arithmetic, 
as a starting point. 

[source]
----
int main(int argc, char** argv, char** envp)
{
  while(*envp)
  {
    printf("%s\n",*envp++);  
  }
}
----

[source, subs="quotes"]
----
$ **./myenv** 
PATH=/home/alinen/.local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin
$ **env | grep PATH**
PATH=/home/alinen/.local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin
----

NOTE: The shell command `env` prints the environment 

NOTE: The paths above were truncated for brevity. Yours will be much longer!

= Submission

Both team members should submit their own code. 

== Submit your work to Github

Add and check in your program using git and then push your changes to Github. 
Run the following command inside your `{ASST}` directory.

[source, subs="attributes"]
----
$ cd {ASST}
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "Descriptive message"
$ git push
----

Run `git status` to check the result of the previous git command.
Check the Github website to make sure that your program uploaded correctly.

Commit message:

Fix github link in Lab

labs/lab02.adoc, after:

include::header.adoc[]

:title: C no evil
:Author Initials: ASN
:Date:    2020-08-15
:Revision: 0.1
:ASST: labs-USERNAME

= {title}

**Lab exercises: Due January 29th by midnight**

The goals for this assignment are:

* Working with stdout and stderr
* Working with environment variables 
* Working with C strings

To get started, click on this link:https://classroom.github.com/a/K1VF_TaU[Github Link].

:sectnums:

= Stack diagram I

Consider the following program. 

[source]
----
int main() {
  const char* str = "unicorn";

  const char* m = NULL;
  for (const char* p = str; *p != '\0'; p++) {
    if (*p == 'c') m = p;
  }
  // Draw the stack here
  printf("%s\n", m);
  return 0;
}
----

Fill in a table that shows how the values of `*p` and `*m` change each iteration of the loop.

[cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| Loop Iteration | *p | *m 
| 1 | u | NA (NULL) 
| | |
| | |
| | |
| | |
|===

Draw the state of the stack (e.g. a stack diagram) after the loop completes. You do not need to 
show all intermediate steps.

= Stack diagram II

Draw the stack for the following program. Be careful: `strtok` modifies the 
variable `line` by replacing the delimiters with the null character \0. 

[source]
----
int main() {
  char line[1024]; // max of 1023 characters can be read from the line
  strcpy(line, "ls -l -a");

  int n = 0;
  char* list[128]; // max of 128 words can be put in the list
  char* token = strtok(line, delims);
  while (token)
  {
      list[n++] = token;
      token = strtok(NULL, delims);
  }
  list[n] = NULL;
  // Draw the stack here
  return 0;
}
----

= stdout, stderr

Write a program, `outerr.c`, that outputs the even integers between 0 and 10 to standard out 
and the odd integers between 1 and 10 to standard error.

[source, subs="quotes"]
----
$ **./outerr**
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
$ **./outerr > even.txt 2> odd.txt**
$ **cat even.txt**
0
2
4
6
8
$ **cat odd.txt**
1
3
5
7
9
----


= Environment

Write a program, `myenv.c`, that loops through the process's environment variables and 
prints the value for PATH. Use the code below, based on pointer arithmetic, 
as a starting point. 

[source]
----
int main(int argc, char** argv, char** envp)
{
  while(*envp)
  {
    printf("%s\n",*envp++);  
  }
}
----

[source, subs="quotes"]
----
$ **./myenv** 
PATH=/home/alinen/.local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin
$ **env | grep PATH**
PATH=/home/alinen/.local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin
----

NOTE: The shell command `env` prints the environment 

NOTE: The paths above were truncated for brevity. Yours will be much longer!

= Submission

Both team members should submit their own code. 

== Submit your work to Github

Add and check in your program using git and then push your changes to Github. 
Run the following command inside your `{ASST}` directory.

[source, subs="attributes"]
----
$ cd {ASST}
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "Descriptive message"
$ git push
----

Run `git status` to check the result of the previous git command.
Check the Github website to make sure that your program uploaded correctly.
